README.md, before:

# ESP32 Sensor Hub Project

This project demonstrates a simple IoT sensor hub using an ESP32 and an Arduino Uno.
The ESP32 collects data from a variety of sensors and pushes the values to a
Cloudflare based API. An Arduino Uno equipped with a MAX30102 sensor provides
heart rate which is transmitted to the
ESP32 via UART.

## Features

- Temperature and humidity monitoring using a DHT sensor
- Soil moisture sensing with automatic pump control
- Current measurement (ACS712)
- Light intensity and motion detection
- Heart rate from an Arduino Uno over UART
- Sensor data is validated and sent to the cloud through HTTP requests
- Device and sensors are registered automatically on boot

## Requirements

- [ESP-IDF](https://github.com/espressif/esp-idf) toolchain
- A serial connection to the ESP32 board
- An Arduino Uno with a MAX30102 sensor connected via I2C

## Building and Flashing

The provided `makefile` wraps common `idf.py` commands. Typical workflow:

```bash
make port       # detect serial port
make compile    # build the firmware
make flash      # flash to the detected port
make monitor    # view serial output
```

For configuration run `make config` which invokes `idf.py menuconfig`.

## Arduino Sketch

The sketch located at `sub_device/eee4464-uno/eee4464-uno.ino` reads heart rate
and SpO2 from the MAX30102 using the reference algorithm. Results are printed as
JSON strings, e.g. `{"hr":75,"spo2":98}`, which are received by the ESP32.
Upload this sketch with the standard Arduino IDE.

## Running

1. Flash the ESP32 firmware using the steps above.
2. Upload the Arduino sketch to your Uno and connect its TX/RX pins (through a
   level shifter) to GPIO21/GPIO22 on the ESP32.
3. Once both devices are running, the ESP32 will log incoming heart rate and SpO2
   readings and forward all validated sensor data to the cloud API.

Commit message:

Update README for MQTT publishing

README.md, after:

# ESP32 Sensor Hub Project

This project demonstrates a simple IoT sensor hub using an ESP32 and an Arduino Uno.
The ESP32 collects data from a variety of sensors and publishes the values to a HiveMQ MQTT broker. An Arduino Uno equipped with a MAX30102 sensor provides heart rate which is transmitted to the ESP32 via UART. A Cloudflare API is still used to register the device and sensors.

## Features

- Temperature and humidity monitoring using a DHT sensor
- Soil moisture sensing with automatic pump control
- Current measurement (ACS712)
- Light intensity and motion detection
- Heart rate from an Arduino Uno over UART
- Sensor data is validated and published to HiveMQ over MQTT
- Device and sensors are registered automatically on boot

## Requirements

- [ESP-IDF](https://github.com/espressif/esp-idf) toolchain
- A serial connection to the ESP32 board
- An Arduino Uno with a MAX30102 sensor connected via I2C

## Building and Flashing

The provided `makefile` wraps common `idf.py` commands. Typical workflow:

```bash
make port       # detect serial port
make compile    # build the firmware
make flash      # flash to the detected port
make monitor    # view serial output
```

For configuration run `make config` which invokes `idf.py menuconfig`.

## MQTT Publishing

Sensor values are published to `mqtts://6bdeb9e091414b898b8a01d7ab63bcd2.s1.eu.hivemq.cloud:8883`.
Topics follow the pattern `iot/<sensor>` and each message is JSON encoded:
- `iot/temperature` – `{"temperature":25.4}`
- `iot/humidity` – `{"humidity":40.2}`
- `iot/soil` – `{"moisture":3500}`
- `iot/pump` – `{"pump_state":1}`
- `iot/light` – `{"light":3300}`
- `iot/motion` – `{"motion_detected":0}`
- `iot/current` – `{"current":0.42}`
- `iot/heart_rate` – `{"heart_rate":75}`

MQTT can be enabled or disabled via menuconfig. Run `make config` and look for the **MQTT** option.


## Arduino Sketch

The sketch located at `sub_device/eee4464-uno/eee4464-uno.ino` reads heart rate
and SpO2 from the MAX30102 using the reference algorithm. Results are printed as
JSON strings, e.g. `{"hr":75,"spo2":98}`, which are received by the ESP32.
Upload this sketch with the standard Arduino IDE.

## Running

1. Flash the ESP32 firmware using the steps above.
2. Upload the Arduino sketch to your Uno and connect its TX/RX pins (through a
   level shifter) to GPIO21/GPIO22 on the ESP32.
3. Once both devices are running, the ESP32 will log incoming heart rate and SpO2
   readings and publish the validated sensor data to the HiveMQ broker.
